so if we think about why we get addicted
to video games or substances
it's the inability to tolerate a
negative emotion
so sitting within a negative emotion is
the first step of every unwanted action
so reward it
so if you don't get out of bed because
it is very uncomfortable
very comfortable sitting with this
uncomfortable feeling should be your
first goal
tell yourself hey this is exactly what i
wanted i wanted to feel this
uncomfortable feeling so i can be proud
of myself that i did it
if you listen to this talk between lex
friedman and andrew huberman
talking about david goggins you can get
an idea of why this could help you
overcome the action blockage from those
negative emotions quick summary though i
don't know if it's 100
correct the idea is that when you have
this mental friction from the negative
emotion your body naturally wants to
stay still
run away from this threat by rewarding
yourself with sanding this emotion
the dopamine that is released helps to
turn down this mental friction
which will then ease up the way towards
action
yeah so i think that
there's some good stuff here
but there are some
[Music]
problems here too so i
completely agree that sitting with a
negative emotion
is a very important step towards moving
in the right direction
i think i know it sounds kind of weird
but like i think you guys have to be
careful about this too
like this is the challenge right is it's
hard to actually like
choose what you reward yourself with
right so if i were to say like
i should just reward myself for drinking
water instead of drinking soda
like that's not actually how dopamine
works
right like i can tell myself that this
like this this this is really tricky
because like i can tell myself like
tell yourself hey this is exactly what i
wanted
but this is not actually sitting with
something
because that's not actually
authentically how you feel
right so telling yourself something is
not actually being authentic
sure like it can be you can you can have
some amount of benefit from doing this
don't get me wrong there's just a couple
of things here which i think are sort of
nuanced
and it's the tell yourself part that i
think that
you have to be careful about because
telling yourself something won't
actually release a dopamine hit
right it's like like i remember many
years ago
i used to hate going to amusement parks
so i stopped going for like a decade and
then like
i i was you know once i got together
with my wife she really liked them
and so i was like oh like i'll just you
know like i'll just get over it
so i went on roller coasters found the
experience to be like
mind numbingly unpleasant like i just
don't enjoy being on a roller coaster
and i was like i'll get used to it i'll
get used to it i'll get used to it try
to enjoy it
so i use like all my yoga training to go
like back on the roller coaster again
and again and again and again so
conquered my fear
tried to enjoy it and then i sort of
realized like the more i used like the
yogic training i just sat down after my
like seventh roller coaster of the day
and i was like
you know what i just don't enjoy this
and i actually
don't need to enjoy it like i don't have
to convince myself
that this is fun so i think it's really
challenging when you guys set a standard
for yourself
to like use tell yourself that you enjoy
something
and then rely on like the dopamine hit
to motivate your action
because that may not work and then where
are you like do you just try yours to
tell yourself more like this reminds me
a little bit of like the power of
positive thinkers it's just to tell
yourself man just tell yourself tell
yourself that you enjoy this
tell yourself that this is good so i
think learning how to talk to yourself
in a healthy way is absolutely
wonderful don't get me wrong like it's
good to tell yourself nice compassionate
things
so telling yourself has a space noticing
your unwanted emotions and learning how
to sit with your unwanted emotions
is absolutely very very important
it's the translation of this that
sometimes i kind of disagree with
because in my experience the goal of
sitting with unwanted emotions is not
the first step
to right action it's the first step to
conquering wrong action so if we think
about
why we get addicted to video games or
substances
it's the inability to tolerate a
negative emotion
i feel ashamed of myself so let me go
play some dota and then i can forget
about the shame
i feel anxious in a social setting so
let me get
high first so that like i can enjoy
social feelings
i work with people who have marijuana
addiction and like the most
devastating and hardest marijuana
addiction to kick
is diagnosed this way and it is
when i smoke marijuana i feel the way
that other people look
i feel normal other people are living
normal lives
and i'm not living a normal life and if
i take marijuana i get
access for a few hours to a normal life
that is the hardest addiction to kick so
in my experience
should you learn how to sit with a
negative emotion absolutely
but be careful because when you start
telling yourself things
or forcing yourself to believe a
particular thing that's actually where i
think you go wrong
because what i what i try to help people
do is like sit with the negative emotion
absolutely
but don't let the negative emotion
control your behavior don't convince
yourself
otherwise actually accept that this i
absolutely sit with the negative emotion
but don't give in to it
right don't give in to the behavior that
follows the negative emotion
and that's when i say just don't give in
to it that's where the process of not
giving into it this is my problem with a
lot of the like
you know these like analyses is like no
one gives you a process
and they tell you the goal they say
notice your negative emotions tell
yourself this they don't like and it
sort of sounds like a process but like
what's the real process the real process
is going to be painful
that as you notice the negative emotion
that is actually going to mechanically
disable its energy a little bit and then
notice what happens when you give into
it and notice what happens when you
don't give in to it
which you are you happier to be
and noticing is just the first step
right like awareness precedes control
good diagnosis precedes good treatment
so you should absolutely notice your
unwanted actions i mean unwanted
emotions and learn how to sit with them
but the goal is not to transform them
into something that you enjoy
because you may not be able to do that
don't rely on that the goal is to not
let them control you you should be in
control of them
and your behaviors should not be
dictated by unwanted emotions
how do you not give in you start by
noticing and i know it sounds kind of
weird but we can
do this i'll give you guys like a
meditation practice like now okay
i want you guys to take a food that
you dislike and try eating it
but do it with a hundred percent
awareness don't watch anything
don't read anything don't listen to an
audiobook sit there with the food and
take one bite
of the food that you dislike it doesn't
have to be your least favorite fruit
just something you're not a big fan of
like try to be like relatively neutral
and just notice what happens to your
ability to eat it
as you eat it with full awareness does
it become easier to eat or harder
to eat it's kind of weird right so
someone says pineapple on pizza
the great divide right so if you guys we
could talk about privilege and
and you know socioeconomic stuff as much
as you guys want to
why we really want to get people upset
we'll talk about whether pineapple
belongs on pizza or not
okay just notice what happens
with your discomfort and then see how
the discomfort that you have full
observation of
affects your behavior down the road does
it make it easier to eat it or harder to
eat it
and that will be your answer